Chore/#333 data sov guardrails presentation (#791)
catenax-ng/tx-item-relationship-service: docs/concept/#333-Policy-hub-concept/#333-policy-hub-concept.md

| Creation date | 22.02.2024                                                                       |
| Ticket Id     | [#333](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/item-relationship-service/issues/333) |    
| State         | WIP                                                                              | 

## Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Summary](#summary)
3. [Problem Statement](#problem-statement)
4. [Requirements](#requirements)
5. [NFR](#nfr)
6. [Out of scope](#out-of-scope)
7. [Assumptions](#assumptions)
8. [Concept](#concept)
9. [Glossary](#glossary)
10. [References](#references)

## Overview
The policy store must offer a level of security and reliability to ensure trust in this Policy Store component.   For this reason, the reliability of the Policy Store data must be improved and misuse or abuse must be prevented.

## Summary
Policy Store MUST only support permitted and compliant policies and, in the event of registration of a non-compliant policy, should provide the caller with assistance and instructions on how this can be corrected

## Problem Statement

> In its current form, the Policy Store accepts any form of policy definition. There is no validation with regard to semantic or syntactic correctness.

Reviewer: We do check for syntactic correctness. Proper JSON structure has to be provided and the Policy has to match the Object Structure of the Policy Object.

> In its current form, the Policy Store accepts any form of policy definition. There is no validation with regard to semantic or syntactic correctness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In its current form, the Policy Store accepts any form of policy definition. There is no validation with regard to semantic correctness.
```

            alt (policy valid)
                PolicyValidator -->> PolicyValidator : set policy state to valid
            else (policy invalid)
                PolicyValidator -->> PolicyValidator : set policy state to invalid + add message
            end
        else
           PolicyValidator -->> PolicyValidator : set policy state to invalid + add message 
        end
    end 
       alt (policies state is valid) 
         loop (policies)
            PolicyStore ->> PolicyStore: persist registered Policies
         end
          PolicyStore -->> TraceX : 201  Created Policy registration succeed.
       else
          PolicyStore -->> TraceX : 400 Policy registration failed. Response contains detailed error message.   
       end

````
1. Business app registers policy definition for BPNL
2. Validation for registered policies 
3. PolicyValidator extracts policy constraints from registered policy and creates PolicyContentDefinition   (Policy Content definition is the request body for POST /api/policy-hub/policy-content)
   31. Detect PolicyType (Usage)
   32. Detect Constraint Operand (And / Or)

>    33. Detect Constraints with Key/Operator/Value combination

Reviewer: Nested list is not displayed correctly

> 3. PolicyValidator extracts policy constraints from registered policy and creates PolicyContentDefinition   (Policy Content definition is the request body for POST /api/policy-hub/policy-content)
>      31. Detect PolicyType (Usage)
>      32. Detect Constraint Operand (And / Or)
>      33. Detect Constraints with Key/Operator/Value combination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. PolicyValidator extracts policy constraints from registered policy and creates PolicyContentDefinition (Policy Content definition is the request body for POST /api/policy-hub/policy-content)
   1. Detect PolicyType (Usage)
   2. Detect Constraint Operand (And / Or)
   3. Detect Constraints with Key/Operator/Value combination
```

`````
{
   "PolicyType": "Usage",
   "ConstraintOperand": "And",
   "Constraints": [
    {
      "Key": "FrameworkAgreement.traceability",
      "Operator": "Equals",
      "Value" : "active:1.1"
    },
    {
      "Key": "companyRole.dismantler",
      "Operator": "In"
    },
    {
       "Key": "BusinessPartnerNumber",
       "Operator": "Equals",
       "Value": "BPNL00000003CRHK"
    },
    {
      "Key": "purpose",
      "Operator": "Equals"
    },
    {
       "Key": "Membership",
       "Operator": "Equals"
    }
   ]
}
`````

#### Policies 

* Type
  * Access
  * Usage
  * Purpose

* UseCase
  * Traceability
  * Quality
  * PCF
  * Behavioraltwin
  * Sustainability

## Glossary

| Abbreviation | Name                    | Description                                             |
|--------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
|              | PolicyTemplate          | Response of endpoint POST /api/plicy-hub/policy-content | 
|              | PolicyContentDefinition | DSL introduced by PolicyHub| 

## References
* [Swagger Policy Hub](https://policy-hub.dev.demo.catena-x.net/api/policy-hub/swagger/index.html)

> * [API Endpoint usage](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/policy-hub/blob/feature/request-docu/docs/developer/Technical-Documentation/requests/example-requests.md)

Reviewer: This link is not working
